RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES

This section describes the rights and responsibilities of institutions and authorized investigators in association with Databrary and the rights granted to Databrary by Institutions and authorized investigators.

Background: Why video requires special care
Video and audio recordings may contain information about research participants or other individuals who are incidentally recorded. Images and/or voices may be visible or heard and names may be spoken out loud. If a study takes place in a home or other setting, aspects of that home or setting may be recorded. Thus, individuals or locations may be identified from recordings. In addition, metadata (e.g. child's birthdate) may contain identifiable information. Any identifiable information may only be shared with the explicit informed consent of individuals.

To avoid risks associated with the unintended identification of depicted individuals, authorized investigators agree to follow the policies in this access section, and institutions agree to take responsibility for the investigators that they authorize.

INSTITUTIONS
Researchers seeking authorization to access Databrary must have their Databrary Access Agreement approved and signed by an authorized representative, or AOR, of their institution. Once an institution has signed the agreement, the individual becomes an authorized investigator.

Overview of the Databrary Access Agreement
The Databrary Access Agreement grants user and contributor privileges to all shared data in Databrary. Once the agreement is finalized, authorized investigator can access identifiable data that is shared.

Approval for research involving human subjects is not required by Databrary in order to become an authorized investigator. Institutions should remember that authorized investigators agree to seek whatever approvals are required by their institution for their use of Databrary. Typically, contributing data and conducting research using Databrary resources require institutional approval for research involving human subjects. However, many uses of Databrary are for pre-research or non-research purposes (e.g. browsing data for ideas, getting video clips for teaching or talks, learning about procedures or methods) and do not typically require institutional approval for research involving human subjects.

When Authorizing Investigators
The institution confirms the eligibility of its investigators by:

Verifying that authorized investigators are eligible to conduct independent research at the institution.
Validating that authorized investigators have research ethics training that meets the institution's standards.
The institution:

Maintains an ethics or institutional review board that reviews and approves research involving human subjects.
Grants authorized investigators the responsibility to choose and manage affiliates who meet Databrary's qualifications and who agree to follow Databrary's ethical principles. The institution holds authorized investigators responsible for the conduct of affiliates they select.
Accepts responsibility for its authorized investigator(s) actions related to the use of Databrary.
Data Contribution and Use
The institution:

Asserts that it has the rights to share with Databrary any data the authorized investigator contributes; no other entity or individual has ownership rights that prevent the authorized investigator from contributing data to Databrary.
Agrees to allow use of the data exclusively for the purpose of scientific research or education under the auspices of an academic, research, government, health, or commercial entity (but in the last case, solely for non-commercial purposes unless allowed under the terms of a separate agreement).
Agrees not to sell or trade data or use it for other commercial purposes.
Grants each authorized investigator authority to decide when and with whom the authorized investigator wishes to share data, and the institution holds the authorized investigator responsible for the use of shared data.
Agrees to follow all relevant national, state, and local laws and regulations that pertain to the use of research data.
Confidentiality and Ethics
The institution agrees to inform Databrary of any suspected violation of confidentiality or ethics. If Databrary determines that an authorized investigator at the institution has violated the terms of the Databrary Access Agreement or other Databrary policies, Databrary may remove the data in question and/or deny the authorized investigator or the institution access to Databrary, temporarily or permanently.

Any violation may be reported to the official at the institution charged with handling violations of research ethics. The Institution may request information from Databrary about the authorized investigator's use or their Affiliate's use of the library.

If denied access to Databrary, authorized investigators or the institution may request a review.

Each party shall be responsible for its negligent acts or omissions and the negligent acts or omissions of its employees, officers, or director's, to the extent allowed by law.

AUTHORIZED INVESTIGATORS
This section describes the rights and responsibilities of authorized investigators associated with their use of Databrary.

To become authorized, applicants must register and sign the Databrary Access Agreement and have their agreement signed by an authorized representative of their institution.

Authorized investigators should understand their specific rights and responsibilities when contributing data, using data, respecting participant release levels, and managing affiliates.

Guiding Ethical Principles
Databrary's three guiding ethical principles embody the commitment that is expected of all community members to build a community that follows the highest ethical standards.

As a member of the Databrary community you promise to:

Treat Databrary data with the same high standard of care that you treat data collected in your own laboratory.
Ensure that participants' wishes about sharing their data are respected.
Take care in granting and managing access for affiliates and take responsibility for their use of Databrary.
Specific Responsibilities for Authorized Investigators
As an authorized investigator you agree to:

Comply with your institution's policies on the conduct of research.
Have completed research ethics training that meets the institution's standards.
Keep your contact information and institutional affiliation current on Databrary.
Investigators agree to follow all relevant national, state, and local laws and regulations that pertain to the use of Databrary resources.

Investigators acknowledge that they have read and understand the Databrary Bill of Rights, the Databrary Data Sharing Manifesto, and all other Databrary policies.

Each party shall be responsible for its negligent acts or omissions and the negligent acts or omissions of its employees, officers, or director's, to the extent allowed by law.

Researchers agree to use the highest level of professional judgment and to uphold the highest ethical principles in protecting the privacy interests of human participants depicted in Databrary audio and video recordings, and in determining which clips and images from those recordings will be shared in public settings (e.g., research presentations, class lectures) for informational or educational purposes. Researchers understand that such uses (e.g., research presentations, class lectures) may be videotaped or recorded and that those videos or recordings may then be made available to the public via the internet (e.g., YouTube). Wherever reasonably possible, researchers will restrict the extent of public exposure to such human subjects to informational, educational, or research contexts.

Affiliates must abide by the same rights and responsibilities as authorized investigators. However, affiliates are not able to share their own data or authorize other affiliates on their own behalf to access Databrary.

Institutions and investigators agree to grant Databrary rights with respect to any data they contribute and their use of Databrary.

Databrary reserves the right to:

Redistribute the data in Databrary in accordance with investigator’s wishes and the permissions chosen by depicted individuals.
Promote and advertise data.
Describe, catalog, validate and document data.
Store, translate, copy or re-format data in any way to ensure its future preservation and accessibility.
Incorporate metadata or documentation.
Revoke sharing of data that pose a risk of violating confidentiality, harm or embarrass individuals, or create other ethical problems.
Revoke access to Databrary for ethics violations by any person.